---
layout: post
title: "CS-lunch 18. February"
categories: cs-lunch seminar 
---

Next up in the seminar series is [Edvard
Pedersen](http://uit.no/ansatte/organisasjon/ansatte/person?p_document_id=309402&p_dimension_id=88138)
presenting *Integrating Data-Intensive Computing Systems with Biological Data
Analysis Frameworks*. The CS-Lunch is at Lille Aud. Realfagbygget on February
18., 12:15-14:00. You'll need to sign up
[here.](http://uit.no/om/enhet/aktuelt/arrangement?p_document_id=404396&p_dimension_id=88138)


<h4> Abstract </h4> 
Biological data analysis is typically implemented
using a pipeline that combines many data analysis tools and 
meta-databases. These pipelines must scale to very large datasets, 
and therefore often require parallel and distributed computing. 
There are many infrastructure systems for data-intensive 
computing. However, most biological data analysis pipelines do 
not leverage these systems. An important challenge is therefore to 
integrate biological data analysis frameworks with data-intensive 
computing infrastructure systems. In this paper, we describe how 
we have extended data-intensive computing systems to support
unmodified biological data analysis tools. We also describe four 
approaches for integrating the extended systems with biological 
data analysis frameworks, and discuss challenges for such 
integration on production platforms. Our results demonstrate 
how biological data analysis pipelines can benefit from 
infrastructure systems for data-intensive computing.

<small>Bjørn Fjukstad <small>

